Conditional Generation, prefix “machine”

machine

From 1939 to 1946, Harry Houdini created a method of enthralling the senses with sounds and light that challenged conventional wisdom about what visual perception could accomplish. These monumental oil paintings, Light in the Attic and A Dream of Hue and Cry, show Houdini at his most abstract.

In these muted, charcoal paintings made from fibreglass and iron, Houdini
engaged the subconscious mind of the viewer, evoking both his psychological
and physical states. As the viewer focuses on a particular color, the fibrous
form shifts dramatically—from a solid block wall into a soft, muted waft;
from a dark room into a warm one.

The viewer's experience of the painting's content is a function of the light streaming in. In
a darkened room, distant lights made it nearly impossible to discern
theural content. But during the day, when colorshaping activities are more
common, it is easier to make out faint echoes of the past.

In this print by Louise Bourgeois, the image streamers appear to be ascending the print
up, one by one. As the viewer moves their heads up the print,
such dynamics are obvious.

In This Wind blows the spirit of my forefathers O how far we have flown in the defense of civil rightssoffsoffsofvictoriafamerica!

This print by Mary Elizabeth McGowan captures the spirit of the integrated Birmingham high school integrated
from the air!


The integration of Mary Ellora High School in Mary E. McGowan's painting was a long-standing
planned out process. After the school was desegregated in 1978, Mary and John fought to keep the school separate. They invested more than $1.5 million to create a new building of 60 classrooms and offices.

Today, each classroom has its own chair, desk, and other instructional equipment. In Grayscale, these photographs bring to life the cramped classroom and the fierce competition among students.

Silkscreened above, right, is Mary Ellen Johnson's depiction of Harlem's Little Italy, 1960s and 1970s. The neighborhood, then largely segregated, was a magnet for artists, visitors, and young people seeking a change of pace.


In this print by Irv Kulauspan about his mother, the viewer sees dear loved ones reflected through the often-shoddy paint.

Mother Teresa's spiritual guidance and personal connection to the poor was well known to her son-in-law,
Irv Kulauspan. In this 2013 painting, the spirit of the 1960s drives the viewer onward through the city
as pilgrims approach the tomb of a mother loved by 14,000 pilgrims a day for lung cancer research
In this print by Richard Diebenkorn, M.D., the spirit of cancer-stricken patients rests proudly on their faces
Comfort food, clean drinking water, and medical attention were the hallmarks of life for patients and visitors to Memorial Hermann Chase Medical Center in Chicago from 1932 to 1971. The i sheen of Chase reflects the city in which patients and visitors lived. Its dilapidated interior and loss of natural light have given way to soaring ceilings and opulent furnishing. Lake Michigan and the Mississippi Valley Streets that separate downtown Chicago from the city center make for a surreal visit for the ocassion.

In this print by Antwan Britt, M.D., the spirit of patients and visitors shines through the aging exterior
and interior walls of Memorial Chase
Britt's depiction of patients and visitors in their 80s and 90s shows a world in which social desirability and desultory routines persist
Patient and visitor perspectives are preserved through the partial exposure
Britt's compositions document both the external and the internal operating environments of a facility
Britt created a wide variety of hang paintings. He primarily used 
cotton, paper, and linen.


"I have a sort of Homer's Ithaca need I say?"

- Richard Diebenkorn, M.D., about his late mother

Richard Diebenkorn was an internationally known sculptor, an alumnus of the School of Arts and Sciences and a trustee of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He died December 23, at his home in Chicago of natural causes.

He was the son of Mary Anne and Aaron Diebenkorn. he was an accomplished sculptor and a member of the National Academy of Arts and Sciences.

He was a member of the Alsop Historic District Associa-tions, the Friends of the Alsop Art Museum, the Council on Civic Arts and the Ward 7 Council.

He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, the American Academy of Arts and Letters of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Letters of Science, the Association of American Statis-






Conditional Generation, prefix “abstract”

abstracted, but the footage itself is compelling.

The photos were taken of a cat in a cage, and one of the photos is shown below. It's lit from below up to reveal a close-up of the cat's eyes—brightly pigmented and infused with violet. The other photos, however, are from a higher perch, and reveal the cat from below down.

The juxtapositions—the animals in the cage and the creatures below—are central to David Mitchell's work. In 2005, he founded the Documentary Filmmaker's Alliance, a network of more than fifty film schools, filmmakers, and museum collections around the United States that supports and inspires filmmakers through educational programs, research and production.

In the 1960s, Harry Avedon created more than one hundred short films, some of which have gone on to win multiple Oscars, including one for Gone With the Wind's Robert E. Lee, and which featured a marching band and a cannon. His collection includes a large wooden desk and chair, which he donated to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

In the 1970s, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, created a new collection that blended traditional art objects with modern technology. The Center for the Study of Modern Art in Los Angeles also incorporated various science and technology topics into its classes and exhibitions.

In the early 2000s, the Art Institute of Chicago's Whitney Biennial included work by over a hundred Chicago-based artists in various stages of conservation or restoration. The Whitney held the Edith Waxmayer Prize for Lifetime Achievement in 1986.

In 2013, the Whitney was home to artist Thaddeus Stevens' final exhibition, and collection,geries. he has painted. He died on November 25, after a long and prolific public-art career that spanned more than forty-five years.

Stevens died naturally in his Chicago studio apartment from natural causes, at the age of seventy-five. He is survived by his wife, the artist Vicki; their two children, Lisa Richard and David Kirtley; and several grandchildren.

The Whitney held Stevens' final exhibition, Collection Gods: Essays from the Exhibit 
of his painted and painted-surface work of fiction and nonfiction, as well as complete works. This powerful exhibition demonstrates Stevens's versatility as a curator and audiences'
ambient access to his work

"I had this vision of a giant screen, and I started pushing it. I remember pushing it down a flight of steps, and it just sort of slid down. It was this incredible scale. Then suddenly it's this room on wheels, pushing this giant spinning cylinder — pushing this big, heavy thing."


Jacob Frank initiated the process of representing New York's theater scene in abstraction with the creation of iMac Theater. Devoutly functional, the sleek, translucent surface style was effervescent with energy and connected aesthetic experimentation with the crafting process.i

"We need to rethink how we conceptualize space. We've basically been doing it that way since the beginning of time. It's natural. It's just our brains are wired to process huge quantities of information at once.

... Our ability to process so much information in such a small space is what allows us to perceive the world so intricately."


-Richard P. Jones, professor of human ecology and evolutionary biology and director of the Museum of Comparative Anthropology and Evolution

and a professor of integrative biology and biology

at the University of Maryland

At the heart of Jones's research is the study of how the brain processes spatial information. For over thirty years, he has investigated how hemispheres of the body perform similar functions when processing multiple simultaneous visual inputs.

Jones's work has been broadly recognized for his studies of movement and perception, but his studies of spatial perception are particularly relevant to the study of iMac Theater.

"The human body as a whole performs many tasks that are physically impracticable with a singleton appendage. For example, it is much more efficient to carry heavy loads using the back legs than using the front. It is much more efficient to carry loads using one's arms than using one's head. It is much more efficient to carry loads using one's legs than using both one's feet. It is much more efficient to carry loads using one's head than using one's body.

It is also much easier for one object to perform one task better than another. For example, it is much easier for one thing to carry a lot of force doing one thing well than doing another thing well. It is much easier to move a weight.

It is much easier for one thing to exert a certain amount of tension. For example, it is much easier to bend a rod.

It is much easier to manipulate one thing in space. For example, one's body in- and out of one's mind.

... It is through these





Conditional Generation, prefix “untitled”

untitled.  It's about a detective who moves into a small, art-filled apartment with his wife and young family.  But things quickly go awry when a series of bizarre and violent disappearances begins to make the once tranquil neighborhood into something more than it seems.
Her was a beautiful painting called "Silver Bells."  It was a series of 
three small silver bells suspended from a ceiling fan, 
representing the friendship between the spirit of a young 
sperson Emily Sparrow and that of her educator mentor. The scene was taken 
from a song written about the Edith Cushing character, who died young tragically 
obese in a Louisiana penitentiary in the late 1940s.

A 19th-century engraving of a woman walking past a flower is captioned: "A 
different kind of lady walking past a flower." 
The words refer to a feature of Martha 
Wells's oeuvre—she can bring out the best in ordinary objects, 
even flowers. Over the course of our collaboration, we came to like to imagine 
how the natural world might be more than our physical models. Sometimes we had to 
break from our comfort zones to imagine a more encompassing whole.

This print by Madeline Alkanah is one of a series that celebrates Pittsburgh's 
indigenous artists. The other prints are 
of Salvador Dali, Mary Cassatt, and Gustave Eizam.

This photograph, by Italian artist Giulietta Bensi, provides a rare 
view of an eye. the artist is wearing a complete face view camera, allowing 
agnostic reading of a picture to the naked eye. out of focus details such as 
the tinge of brown around the irises and the thick black of the iris allow us to see 
closely the thought processes involved in the drawing.

"I cast my eyes on his dead face. I see myself as a young man struggling 
with the same questions that confronted me as Arlie were the same questions 
that confront us all—about the world and ourselves. We are not alone in the search 
for truth and purpose. It is I have become a part of my dying people, submitting 
my values and seeking to make common cause with thelessly marginalized. It is 
like taking the horse's bridle and riding off into the sunset. [I am leaving behind] 
the trappings of my former self and falling in with the people I once knew. It is as if I 
forgive and embrace the mistakes of my past. The release I get from seeing the monster 
that was I knew from within as well. It is as if I finally unplugged the land-line from the 
mobile and let go of the car as the only means of transportation left for my family. It 
is as if I relinquished all pretense of knowing anything beyond the immediate."

Benedict Kelliher visited Pittsburgh to view firsthand one of the city's last remaining 
live art spaces, the Workingman's Gallery, and was moved by the spirit of the abandoned 
houses, factories, and offices that remained. There, she found that confinement could 
also be freedom. To defiantly address the prison system that held her,
ledepped into the space's empty halls, exposing masses of locked shutters and 
paneling that seemed designed to compel defiant action. She called on the locked 
facades of such institutions to become the site for broad, free public assemblies, and
invited those who attended to lead chants and sit down to work. Labeling a space 
like this one had been __Shakálit__, a phrase that roughly translates to "directly 
come to the mind's attention." A Call to Arms sign hung from one wall; one of over a hundred 
pinions attached to that statement, and a portion of the money raised at the Gardner-Weill 
Art Institute's Dialectical & Historical Fund would go to support __Shakálit__.

"We need artists like these to think globally—and not just within their own disciplines, 
but also around them. They needn't limit themselves to constructing their 
own images, but should extend their attention to those made by their Western counterparts. 
They also serve as a beacon for a country trying to shake off its post-Cold War 
stance of openness and appreciation for everything foreign or unorthodox. Bruce Beardsleyn was one of 
these early generation of thinkers when it came to international affairs and art 
making. A native of Birmingham, England, he received his M.Pain. and Ph.D. from the School of Painting & Sculpture 
in London's University of London, and his art was





Unconditional Generation

And what about the problem of the modern world? For me, the problem is the modern world itself. If I could choose one thing to banish from my life, it is the everyday routine of routine. The routine of routine. I try to avoid it as much as I can.

I like to say that I am a biomagnetist. I like to think of myself as a scientist first.

I like to think of my work as history in the making, a journey that reveals the ways in which the living world and the studies it produces shape our world in unique and long-term ways.

I believe that through a rigorous, methodical scientific process, it is possible to bring about radical transformations in the way people lived their days. It is a belief in science and technology that animates my projects and APS.

I also believe in something deeper. That something-ness is essential to my work and to what it means to dream big.

In the late 1960s, I was part of a group of scholars, artists, and science enthusiasts who established an Oakland-based Center for Inquiry in response to the city's anti-war protests of months earlier. Here, I would do work that would inform a pivotal sequence in Carl Piaf's development as a photographer.

I would use medium, composition, and setting all in order to bring about his primary intent of subjecting the present to inspection. The resulting images are primarily portraits, which are rarely my forte.

[on becoming an environmental activist] [I became] an environmental justice activist because I believed that the Earth is our only home and our future depends on it.

I became an environmental justice activist because of the threat of nuclear power.

I realized that if we are to avoid major environmental disasters like the one that devastated Japan in 2011, it is essential that public concern about the problem and public action are closely connected.

I also became an environmental justice activist after reading [ Carol Moseley Braun's] book,The Soul of a Sculptor.

I wanted to know if humans could create art simply by observing the world around us and creating art out of that.

I wanted to know if human nature could be characterized by-areas of concern so specific as to make us particularly sensitive to particular concerns.

I wanted to know if human nature were characterized byso-precise a line of inquiry that focus could be maintained on a single object,totem, image, feeling, problem, idea, thing, human being, thing or idea —

or was it forgoing fieldwork altogether?

Isofors wanted to explore every nook and cranny of the laboratory. To do so, he
 relied on strict privacy and frequent visits to the cadaver rooms.

In many of his earliest studies, Hinton relied upon cadaveries as a basic repository for body parts such as feet and hands, which he
used to make paintings. For 2002'sI Live in Drowns, he visited six cemeteries in the Shenandoah Valley in Maryland to display
hundreds of handmade pieces of his artwork: cotton embroidered hoodeds, brocaded vestments, embroidered gloves, and
block print button-down shirts.all brooded on the commodification of corpses and the deaths they exert in the diaspora.

On two occasions in the 1960s, Dr. Handswell was awarded an Academy Award for his achievements as an artist and
prize-winning physician. He was not a member of the Academy's Noble Proteus Society.

He served as president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences from 1993 to 2008, and was a founding member of the Council of the ...
(page omitted) is one of the most widely published authors and thinkers of our time.

In more than 400 published books, poetry, playwrites, and museum exhibits, he challenges us to reconsider fundamental assumptions about
nature, culture, and consciousness.

Her grave lacks the pomp and circumstance of our past honors.

Ms. Todesita Tombeca of Mexico City leads a modest and deeply religious life. ...

She does not stress material things over her spiritual content. Instead, her art integrates traditional
representations of cemeteries with that of stucco homes and other building materials.

Mr. Todesita created the Grave at Clear Creek in 1957 with his wife, Irma. Here,
their three children, aged 2, 9, and 15, can be observed playing in a meadow. With
increasing youth and the development of sturdier construction materials, the Todesitys
an body of work has remained consistent with their commitment to the organic
south. In all of his major workUses of the PowerArray, Ford maintains that the primary
purpose of a gallery is to entertain,provide a forum for the

