"But really, my interest in painting lies in the fact of the painting. And I think that's why 
sometimes people find the big paintings uncomfortable.
Because they, in fact, perceive the space, sense it, and at the same time are repelled by the 
aggression of the painting, of the pigment, of the fact of the picture, its size."

In the early 1960s, Neil Welliver began visiting Maine where he painted large scale studies of 
nudes bathing in streams and ponds, as well as studies of his sons canoeing. The figures in his 
paintings were meant to be read as elements of nature and he sought to depict them in a way that 
made them one with the surrounding environment.

"I think that Ingres’ remark that I leave it to lime to finish my paintings is true in a very wide 
and profound way. I think it's true in many ways. For instance, the paint mellows actually and so 
it becomes more harmonious. If it's an oil painting, there's a certain flow. There's something 
psychological, too, which kind of works back toward the painting. Sometimes things that are awkward and out of place, you find out, are not so awkward. They have their place, and it is an integral thing and not a scattered thing."

Fairfield Porter created Anne, Lizzie and Katie at a time of hard-won acclaim. In the 1950s, after 
spending two decades teaching himself to paint, he executed a number of major works, including this 
one, and was beginning to make a name for himself. Also a poet and art critic,
Porter was one of the most rigorously intellectual American artists of the twentieth century.

Born in Kansas, Aaron Douglas graduated from the University of Nebraska—Lincoln in 1922 and moved 
to New York City in 1925. He became a leader in the Harlem Renaissance after establishing himself 
as an illustrator for influential publications such as Alain Locke's The New Negro and James Weldon 
Johnson's collection of poems God's Trombones. In the painting Window Cleaning, Douglas offers a 
quiet, intimate scene of work in an urban dwelling. The canvas, like those of
other artists working during the Great Depression, focuses attention on
the work of an ordinary person. exploring and commemorating the routine
patterns and events of everyday life.

"I consider what popular culture defines as feminine beauty to be skewed and distorted. Making 
connections with the awkwardness as a female growing up, trying to define myself within a context 
of regional, social, and cultural beauty. Reflecting on my personal issue, the media and Hollywood. 
I am exploring that the social norms are abnormal."

"Styled with hair from my personal experience, these figures are found wearing cornrow braids, 
unkept locks, pressed out curls and pigtails, creating a sense of familiarity, confusion, humor 
and tension."

The painting was based on a rubber Mickey Mouse head someone gave me —such an unhappy-looking 
guy—found in a garbage dump. It looked like something out of Edvard Munch, really deep and brooding.

Joyce Pensato used glossy enamel paint and the visual language
of abstract expressionism to create quirky, chilling interpretations of familiar cartoon characters. 
Her subjects included Mickey Mouse, Lisa and Homer Simpson, and Donald Duck. Pensato's gestural 
approach to depicting such popular icons combined with the outsized scale of the works yields an 
uncompromising interpretation of the dark side lurking within consumer desire.


Edward Hopper's depictions of the everyday lives of city dwellers capture the anonymity and 
isolation of modern urban living. Some of his most compelling pictures, including Room in New York, 
are of figures seen through windows, seemingly unaware of being watched. In many paintings made 
between 1926 and 1932, Hopper included a single figure or couples in compositions that curator 
Judith Barter has described as "[evoking] a hermetically sealed world of emotion."

"We need to remember where we come from; our history is with us and we carry it everywhere. My subjects are anonymous people-the ones who fight in the wars and provide food for us. They are not remembered for 'making history' as world leaders are, but to me they are the true makers of history."

Hung Liu grew up in China during the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), an experience that had a lasting and profound effect on her artwork. Meal II presents us with a fragment of a memory conjured up from Liu's experiences in China during her twenties. The Meal series from which it comes is based on photographs Liu took of farming families she had befriended during the Cultural Revolution. Here, Liu has translated one of her documentary photos to canvas, creating a diaphanous veil of fluid paint that permits hazy access to her recollections of a scene of three figures preparing to eat.

Robert Henri painted Edith Dimock Glackens, a fellow artist and his friend, in a full-length 
portrait that shows off her sumptuous dress. Glackens,
her husband William, and Henri were all active as painters in New York at a time when artists, 
influenced by William Merritt Chase, sought to style themselves as members of the aristocracy, and 
not as mere craftsmen.

"Saw a beautiful large picture of Lincoln last night in a book shop window,.. face
so full of courage and hope... I am simply dead in love with that man."


"I have walked up and down the/ valleys/ of his astounding face... I have scaled
The sheer surface of his/ dignities/ watching the flaming horizon/ with calm."


Between 1940 and 1942, Marsden Hartley painted three portraits of Abraham Lincoln, about whom he 
had also written poetry. Lincoln's facial features are recognizable in Young Worshipper of the 
Truth, yet his suit and tie are notably modern. Here, Hatley maintains the close-cropped, frontal, 
primitive style that characterized his portraits of other historic individuals. Lincoln held a 
special place in Hartley's mind as a public figure who represented honesty
and strength of convictions, and this portrait aims to elevate the slain leader
In collective memory.

Silkscreened above the words "vote for law & order" is a reproduction of a grainy video still of Los Angeles police officers beating Black motorist Rodney King at the conclusion of a high-speed chase on March 3, 1991. Four officers kicked and beat King for a reported fifteen minutes, as more than a dozen additional officers looked on. A bystander, George Holliday, captured nine minutes of King's beating on a camcorder, and the footage, from which the video still was taken, was broadcast globally.

On April 29,1902, the four officers were acquitted of charges of excessive use of force. Mark Flood 
created Vote for Law and Order(Orange on Aqua) a few months later, as one of approximately fifty 
cardboard protest signs to & carried in demonstrations and marches organized against the 1992 Republican National Convention held in Houston in August. According to Flood, the silkscreened signs were “intended to disrupt the thinking of the viewer, rather than to instruct or inform.“ Presenting the recognizable image of King's beating with the call to vote for law and order "was clearly sarcasm," he states.


The two children seated on the hood of a car in Carol O’Neil’s photo display emotions common to 
familial travel the close quarters of an automobile—joy and exasperation. The anonymity of the 
picture is striking. making the drama between passengers even more relatable.

In David Heath's photograph, the subject, Magarita Perez. is more mature in age and in expression. 
Seen through a car window, her gaze is serious and reveals little about her or the journey she may 
de undertaking within the vehicle.

Heath describes his work as portraying the "interior landscapes°of the people he photographed. As 
people travel the physical landscapes of the environment, their internal experience are part of 
that journey as well In both Heath's and O'Neli's photographs, we can see Interior landscapes as diverse as the people who express them and the spaces through which they move.


"I have a sort of Inner conviction that for all the possible llimitationsof my mind and the 
disturbing effects of my processes, for all the contradicting struggles and failures I have gone 
through. I have come to something that is in the image of America and the American people of my 
time."


Thomas Hart Benton was a prominent figure in the early twentieth- century regionalist movement in 
the Midwest. He incorporated naturalism and folk aesthetics into his work, touring America to 
sketch and paint. In several commissioned works, Benton represented the full truth of what he saw, 
both the admirable and the shameful. For example, public murals
painted in Indiana and Missouri featured all aspects of the states' histories,
including enslavement and violence.



"I had things to say about us [Americans] and wanted to do this in the most direct way possible... I 
looked for visual language that would be broadly communicable, direct and clear..."


In his work, Allan D'Arcangelo draws from recognizable signs from highways, as remembered from 
childhood drives in his father's car as well as his own trip from New York City to Mexico City in 
an old bakery van.
With the simple symbols of a white highway line and the recognizable Gulf Oil logo as a rising 
moon, D'Arcangelo taps into themes of environmentalism and isolation in June Moon.

A pioneer of 1970s setup photography. James Casebere constructs and photographs tabletop models 
that mimic aspects of reality. In Z000, inspired by neoclassical spaces and ornamental 
architectural details, ñe began to create replicas of Monticello, Thomas Jefferson's home in 
Virginia, Casebere added a highly reflective resin to the meticulously crafted the rooms so that 
they would appear flooded when photographed. The resulting images are dark and haunting, devoid of 
objects such as brocade fabrics and marble
busts that would make the space more identifiable. As Casebere explains. "It’s
about the re-evaluation of Jefferson, historically... We need to look beyond the myth of what 
Jefferson represents, and that's what the darkness you see is about. It's about the end of the myth. 
The end of the idealization of a founding father.”

Otto Piene was a founding member of ZERO (1957—1966), a group that explored new approaches to art 
making through use of light, motion, space, and time. In the late 1960s, Piene began creating what 
he termed sky art— grand, highly visible, kinetic, ephemeral, multisensorial, and process-oriented 
events in the air over public spaces. Each work required collaboration between artists, scientists, 
and engineers. Piene introduced sky art as a new area of research at MIT's Center for Advanced 
Visual Studies, where he was a fellow from 1968 to 1971 and director from 1974 to 1993.

Peter de Lory is a photographer of landscapes, both physical and social.
He sees himself as a romantic structuralist. a term he coined to describe his formal, 
straightforward approach to photography which invites interpretation of the subject and its 
meaning.

Jacob Hashimoto creates art at the intersections of painting and sculpture, abstraction and 
landscape. He is known for large installations and intricately layered compositions that include 
hundreds of handmade bamboo-and- paper kites. In a 2019 artist talk, he described how he is drawn 
to the “pancultural" tensions inherent in a kite:"There are so many great things about it because 
on one hand it is a toy. On [the other] hand, it is an experiment that one can use to test (...) 
nature in a really primitive sense. It's a joyful object that is also traditionally used for combat 
[in countries around the world].•

Tracing the Ever-Fragile Balance of Dreamless Silence... was made in collaboration with the Los 
Angeles-based printer and publisher Mixografia, introducing a spontaneous approach to Hashimoto's 
work. The printers transformed a preliminary model Hashimoto made using his signature kites and 
fishing wire, as well as worn surfaces and found objects taken from the workshop. into a singular 
print made from handmade paper and ink.

Pat Steir challenges us to reconsider some of our assumptions about artmaking. She sees printmaking 
and painting as being so closely connected that she develops ideas and images for paintings through 
printmaking and considers both to be finished works of art. To create her prints and paintings, 
Steir works inlayers, allowing the movement of dripping ink and thrown paint
to make the images. Long Vertical Falls #l combines multiple printmaking
techniques, including soap ground, which creates white areas against dark backgrounds.and spit bite, 
which resembles watercolor.


"I still work with my hands, in the belief that touch, or the way the material is manipulated, can 
influence the work, and that the physical making process itself can generate ideas, as well as 
bring them to fruition ... It's odd for a living artist to say this about his own work today, but 
my way of making art seems very traditional, at least in its methodology, and in the values that 
guide the result."

Martin Puryear does not carve his wooden sculptures from a block, but instead soaks. bends, weaves, 
and laminates wood using traditional craft practices to create ambitious, ambiguous works of art. 
The Nightmare has undeniable visual and emotional weight. On close view, however, details bring 
into question one's initial perception of the work as solid and exceedingly heavy. Tiny holes—the 
residual marks of staples that once held the form's thin surface to its underlying 
armature—disclose that the work is actually hollow and light.

"I accidentally struck one rod when I wanted to bend it. The sound echoed ln my mind for a very long 
time. Then it initiated a deliberate gesture in search of understanding what a group of wires could 
do—and that process is still going on."


After emigrating from Italy to America in the 1930s, Harry Bertoia would go on to have a successful 
career as a sculptor, printmaker, and furniture designer. From 1953 to 1978, he crafted more than 
fifty public sculptural commissions in the United States and abroad, including a memorial for the 
Marshall University football team and others who lost their lives in a plane crash on November 14, 
1970.

Bertoia also designed a prominent line of furniture, including the 1950s diamond chair, seen below, 
for the company Knoll Associates.


"I've always thought of crafting and technique as being simply how you manage to give form to your 
idea. For me the idea appears first in the mind as a menial image, then I try to physically make 
that the best I can: I search around for the stuff that will do it."
—John McCracken

In the 1960s and 1970s, artists including John McCracken sought to reduce sculpture to primary 
geometric forms such as the one seen here in Grey Plank. The work's sleek finish is owed to the 
artist's interest in car culture, which had a strong presence in Southern California where he 
worked. From those highly polished automobiles, McCracken gleaned both industrial materials and his 
own artistic aesthetic.


"There is hardly any other element that has such a lasting influence on life on our planet as light. 
Light bursts our imagination of time and space. It opens our eyes to the past and to spaces in our 
universe that elude our physiological perceptive capabilities. Without light, refraction and
reflection, we lived in a colorless and therefore contourless world. Colors and shadows are 
phenomena that only become visible and perceptible through light."
-Hans Kotter

Hans Kotter's LED sculptures create dialogues between color, light, and the environments in which 
the works are placed, in order to shape viewer experience and perception. Colour Code is a part of a 
series by Kotter that features vertical light objects with various color combinations.

"This upside-down figure with wooden legs, pouring out paper leaves with language, reflects my 
belief that if we were cut open, mOre than our organs would fall out—so would all of the language 
that we hOld inside us. The words that reach the air in our lifetime are few compared tO the 
unlipped and untongued words held inside. We can never speak enough to speak all the thoughts of 
our thinking mind."

Lesley Dill is one of the most prominent artists working at the intersection of language and fine 
art. Raised and educated in New England, Dill did not consider art as a career until her thirties, 
when she earned an MFA from the Maryland Institute College of Art. Literature, particularly poetry, 
has influenced her work since early in her career.

"I always say that I cast a wide net in terms of what I allow into my field of vision, and from 
there I sort through the pieces looking for gems that
contain something urgent or eternal. Usually, the things I eventually choose to elevate, amplify, 
or call attention to are things I have developed some form of intimacy with through one of these 
channels. The amplification is
a ritual celebrating that intimacy. The procedure of recreating something with anatomical accuracy 
is a method that fosters cellular understanding of the form itself. For me this is a forensic 
approach like an autopsy
or a dissection — a way to totally know but also celebrate a sustained relationship with something. 
But it's also romantic."
—Amanda Ross-Ho

In Gone Tomorrow, Amanda Ross-Ho has amplified a single earring far beyond the proportions of 
personal jewelry. At this scale, the viewer
is given ample space and inspiration to think about all that Ross-Ho is presenting —the words 
themselves, the material, and new perspective on a familiar object.


Leonardo Drew's large-scale, wall-mounted sculptures and installations are built from everyday 
materials, including wood, paper, cotton, and iron, that he intentionally manipulates through 
oxidation, burning, and weathering. Drew's painted wood construction Number 175T invokes 
associations of both the natural and urban landscape: the central, white
form resembles a tree or other organic matter while the tightly configured grid recalls a 
topographic map or urban plan.

Mel Chin often focuses on multidisciplinary concepts that connect aesthetics with social awareness. 
His work, which often involves collaboration, moves beyond singular classification or medium, 
instead encompassing the intersections of environment, science, and art.

This artwork relates to Chin's larger project Revival Field (1991) with USDA senior research 
agronomist Rufus Chaney. Chin and Chaney used green remediation technology to remove cadmium ash 
from heavily contaminated soil at Pigs Eye Landfill in St. Paul, Minnesota. Chin brings the 
project's environmental issues into the context of the gallery by encasing, in glass, organic and 
inorganic materials collected directly from the site of Revival Fleld (see below).

The plant specimen Chin has used here is a variety of Thlaspi. In Revival Field, these plants 
served as hyperaccumulators, effectively drawing the heavy metal cadmium from the contaminated soil 
to their stems and leaves through their roots. Here, Chin emphasizes the importance of the Thlaspi 
as a natural method of environmental restoration by placing their delicate leaves in the center of 
the work and their roots in the surrounding soil.

This label was written by members of the Sheldon Student Advisory Board who selected the work for 
acquisition by the museum.

"Art is too static to reflect our world of movement."

"I begin with the smallest and work up. Once I know the balance point for this first pair Of disks. 
I anchor it by a hook to another arm. where it acts as one end of anOther pair of scales, and so on 
up. It's a kind of ascending scale Of weights and counterweights."

Alexander Calder is best known for his kinetic sculptures—mobiles— and monumental public 
sculptures. There are three sculptures by Calder in Sheldon's collection.

The mobile shown here, Sumac II, is part of a body of work that revolutionized sculpture. Instead 
of placing the works on pedestals or the floor, Calder suspended them from the ceiling, enabling 
them to gently sway in response tO moving air. For Calder, red was a compelling color.
He used the word sumac, Arabic for red. in the titles of several sculptures and famously said in a 
1962 interview, “I love red so much that I almost want to paint everything red."

Throughout his career, Richard Diebenkorn created both abstract and figurative compositions. 
Between 1963 and 1965, he produced a series of more than one hundred drypoint etchings of domestic 
interiors, portraits of his wife, still lifes, nudes, and San Francisco Bay Area landscapes. He 
selected forty-one of the etchings to be printed and published by Crown Point Press, founded and 
run by renowned printmaker Kathan Brown in Berkeley, California. The complete port1olio is on view 
in this gallery.

The 41 etchings Drypoints Portfolio provides an insightful commentary on a lesser-known aspect of 
the artist's oeuvre. While c/ear/y related to his figurative paintings of this period, these 
etchings, Diebenkorn's first serious effort of printmaking, stand on their own as eloquent, robust 
works of art.


In the 1930s, Norman Lewis was part of the 306 group, a collective of Black artists, musicians, and 
writers—including Romare Bearden, Ralph Ell son. Jacob Lawrence, and Augusta Savage—who would 
gather at Charles Alston's studio, 306 West 141st Street in Harlem. While Lewis's earliest work's 
were primarily figurative, by the 1950s, he had abandoned realistic depiction in favor of 
increasingly abstract compositions. Here, his 1962 work Star Gazers evokes both stars and the act 
of looking into the night sky; eyes emerge and dissolve into a dense, complex blend of blues, 
greens, and purples that appears as black as outer space.

"This is important for the development of my way of seeing reality. I used pencil and Higgins ink to 
make the silver-grey of the bark, for the texture of that bark was fascinating to me. Here, I'm 
slowly changing. I'm seeing things in a clearer way."

Throughout his seventy-five-year artistic career, Andrew Wyeth worked almost exclusively in the 
rural towns of Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania, and South Cushing, Maine. He would often go for walks 
through the fields and woods near his Chadds Ford studio, where he found that the landscape 
captured a particular mood. On one such outing, he found the inspiration for Spring Beauty in the 
first bloom of the season, sprouting from the mud and leaves at the roots of a birch tree.

“Spring Beauty“... does reveal Wyeth's most obsessive concern for seeing everything in a subject, 
the infinitesimal as well as the generality. The subject, superficially suggested by the picture's 
title, is more than a white flower pushing through the dead accumulation of the season past. It is,
I think, a metaphor for the artist's hope that spirit wins out even against overwhelming odds.

"I suddenly as if I was it we were taking off. You too were poised on one leg, as if the little room 
could no longer contain you. You soar up to the ceiling. Your head turned down to me and turned mine 
up to you ... We flew over fields of flowers, shuttered houses, roofs, yards. churches."

Marc Chagall was an early modernist painter connected to several major artistic movements, such as 
cubism and symbolism. In 1909, Chagall met Bella Rosenfeld, who soon became his muse and, in 1915, 
his wife. The floating figures in Over the Town and many of his other works may serve as a metaphor 
for freedom, as Jewish people in Russia, including Chagall, could not leave their villages without 
approval. Portraying figures levitating high above towns and their confinement served as an escape 
from reality for Chagall. As a result of anti-Semitic violence, he and his family were forced to 
relocate from Russia to Paris during the Russian Revolution and, eventually, to the United States 
during World War II.

"O how wild I am to get to work, my fingers farely itch & my eyes water to see a fine picture 
again."

Pennsylvania native Mary Cassatt's artistic exposure and career flourished when she traveled to 
Paris, where she formed a friendship with felow impressionist Edgar Degas. Working primarily in 
pastels. Cassatt considered herself a figure painter and received many commissions
for portraits, which were characterized by a high degree of finish in the face and the omission of 
details such as fabric patterns and the sitter's surroundings. This portrait of Mary Say Lawrence, 
daughter of devoted patron Cyrus J. Lawrence, was made during a trip to New York in the winter of 
1898. The work is one of many that helped solidify Cassatt s art and portraiture career in America.

Wayne Thiebaud, whose painting Salads. Sandwiches, and Desserts (shown below) has been a visitor 
favorite since Sheldon's first exhibition in 1963, died December 25, 2021, at his home in 
Sacramento. He was 101 years old.

In 2013. art historian and author Christin Mamiya wrote about Salads, Sandwiches, and Desserts for 
a catalogue commemorating the museum's 50th anniversary and Sheldon Art Association's 125th. Her 
words there are equally descriptive of Cupcake:

In additionn to what he depicts, the power of Thiebaud's paintings derives from his fluid 
application of pigment. The thick, impastoed paint often mimics the frosting and other sweet 
substances he is representing. ... That facility with oil paint. coupled with the appeal of his 
imagery, make Thiebaud much more than just a pieman, and his paintings will surely continue to 
tempt viewers for years to come

"Painting is a medium in which the mind can actualize itself; it is a medium of thought, thus 
painting, like music. tends to become Its own content."
— Robert Motherwell

Robert Motherwell was the youngest of the abstract expressionists. He began painting in earnest in 
1941 after studying philosophy and art history. During this time he became acquainted with the 
surrealist painters, who championed a process of psychic automatism —spontaneous drawing or writing 
that flowed without edit from an artist's unconscious. Motherwell ultimately developed his own 
approach to automatism. Crystal and Earth Yellow, painted in 1946, is an early example of his 
passion for experimentation and discovery. An action painting rooted in figuration, the work shows 
hues and paint application that Motherwell would employ the remainder of his career.


"Circles are/whatever you make them/all or nothing/they are living signs of flowers or spirit/they 
are signs of heaven/rising & falling suns & moons/ the centre of the earth and universe/God{’s} 
eye...they tremble in my transcendental landscape."


Richard Pousette-Dart played a pivotal role in the genesis of abstract expressionism and the New 
York School in America's postwar years. Devoutly spiritual, he developed a contemplative yet 
expressive style influenced by Native American art and textiles. In many of his most meditative 
works, Pousette-Dart deployed heavy application of oil or acrylic in small, short brushstrokes to 
emphasize luminosity within the paintings.

"It's almost like I am praying my way along when I work. It's a free-flowing presence that's not 
always bound by convention and laws. Of course, it's always informed by what I've done and seen in 
the past, but I want it to be spiritual. I know the physical part of it-skill and technique  but 
there's something beyond that. Everybody's sensibly is so different. That's what gives us our 
individuality."


David Driskell was an artist, art historian, professor, and curator renowned for establishing 
African-American art as a field of study essential to understanding the history of art in the 
United States. Over the course of
his seven-decade career, Driskell curated more than thirty-five exhibitions: taught at Fish and 
Howard Universities, the University of Maryland, and the Skowhegan School of Painting & Sculpture: 
and was a fierce advocate for young artists.


"Even if I could put down accurately certain things that I saw and enjoyed it
would not give the observer the kind of feeling the object gave me — I had to create an 
equivalent for what I felt about what I was looking at— not copy it."


Known primarily for her large, finely rendered paintings of flowers, Georgia O Keeffe experimented 
with many media. When working in watercolor, the artist aid not limit her exploration to one form 
ol expression, creating both
abstract compositions, such as Red Splashes with L ine, and figural ones, Blue
Nude (Leah), also in Sheldon's collection and shown below.

"Line, composition and color— these are your tools. How you utilize hem in your works is the key. So 
much depends on what the artist sees and what he feels about the things he comes in contact within 
like. A lot of things you do from your imagination, visualized in the subconscious."
— Richard Dempsey in a Washington Post profile, 1986

Richard Dempsey was a prolific painter and an early adherent of abstract expressionism. After 
studying at the California School of Arts and Crafts, Dempsey moved to Washington, DC, to work as 
an engineering draftsman for the United States government. There, he also furthered his studies
at Howard University. His palette and use of texture in paintings were influenced by frequent trips 
to Jamaica and Haiti.


"I m not looking for details or surface description that s for sure. But I am looking for the light, 
how it Oils volumes. I am looking for the light and the color.
Tn the process of composing her paintings, Lois Dodd also looks for strange, distinctive shapes.
Sometimes I see things like that, then go back, but because the light has changed it s literally 
gone. It depends on the light and a lot of wandering around."

Guided by the fluctuations of natural light, Lois Dodd works in thin layers of paint to let the 
luminous quality of the canvas come through. In Open Door, Pink and Green, the viewer looks outside 
from within at long shadows and vibrant greenery. This work demonstrates Dodd's characteristic 
attention to close detail within a landscape and the inherent beauty of daily scenes.

In 1912 Marsden Hartley went to Paris and formed a friendship with American writer Gertrude Stern, 
whose home was a gathering space for leading writers and artists of the period. She likely 
introduced him to Wassily Kandinsky's influential text Concerning the Spiritual in Art, one of 
several inspirations that prompted Hartley to explore abstraction as a means of representing 
internal or spiritual concerns. Between 1913 and 1915, Hartley produced a group of canvases, 
including painting Number One, that were fully expressionist in style. Here, the abstracted forms 
are layered vertically upward, effused with light and suggesting a cathedral.

"It is not my aim to paint the Negro in America in terms of propaganda ... [but] the life of 
my people as I know it, passionately and dispassionately as Breughel. My intention is to reveal 
through pictorial complexities the lite I know."


Romare Bearden grew up in the intellectual and artistic hub of 1920s Harlem, where his parents 
hosted luminaries such as W. E. B. Du Bois and Aaron Douglas. whose painting Window Cleaning is on 
view upstairs in Figurative Painting from the Collection. This print by Bearden speaks to the 
vibrant cultural world in which he was immersed and demonstrates his attention to the aesthetics 
and people around him. Collaged, flat figures and a simplified color palette characterize his work 
of the 1970s.


"I can imagine no building more suitable for this piece of my work."


Isamu Noguchi's Song of the Bird was one of three sculptures installed in the Great Hall in honor 
of siblings A. Bromley Sheldon and Francis Sheldon when the museum, then the Sheldon Memorial Art 
Gallery, opened in 1963. The other sculptures were Jacques Lipschitz's Bather, 1923—25. and 
Constantin Brancusi's Princess X, 1922.

In early 1963, Noguchi visited Lincoln to personally assemble Song of the Bird in Sheldon's Great 
Hall.


Standing on two impossibly small feet with a wide-brimmed hat perched horizontally on its ovoid 
head, Observer is an early work by Louise Bourgeois, one of the most important artists of the 
twentieth century. The tall and slender human-like sculpture was originally made from pieces of 
found wood and was later cast in bronze. With great care taken to preserve the organic material's 
texture, the work was ultimately painted white. The construction of Observer, and similar figures 
Bourgeois termed Personages, was a way for her to work through homesickness for Paris and the 
people she left behind when she moved to New York City in 1938, shortly before the start of World 
War II.

The image below shows Bourgeois working on a sculpture from this time period.


In early 2008, Paul Octavious started the series Same Hill, Different Day, of which this photograph 
is a part. Over the course of eight years he documented Cricket Hill in Chicago, capturing the 
changing clusters of people, activities, and seasons. The gently curved hill, which overlooks 
Montrose Harbor, was built in 1948 with dirt from a nearby construction site. Octavious sees it as 
“everyone's perfect hill.”

While Betty Hahn's art centers on photography, she challenges conventional ideas of the medium by 
incorporating techniques such as lithography, painting and, as in this work, colorful embroidery.


Robert Indiana's paintings are known for potent inclusion of iconographic signs and symbols. With a 
palette limited to four brightly contrasting colors, The Triumph of Tira is a striking example of 
Indiana's early work.
It is a symbolic portrait of Mae West, star of the 1933 movie I'm No Angel, in which she plays 
Tira, a small-town lion tamer who evades a wrongful charge and ultimately finds success in New York 
City. The stenciled words—law, cat, men, and sex— refer to Tira's victory over the lions,
police, and other men who cross her path as she strives to achieve the
American dream.


Vija Celmins considers the surfaces of her works to be abstractions. She is interested in their 
physical presence and the way in which the viewer's mind expands the image beyond the boundaries of 
the framed object on the wall.

These photographs capture the ephemeral smoke of skywriting. Whereas Mark Steinmetz relies on 
ambiguity and chance events in his practice, Berenice Abbott was deliberate. She asserted, “The 
capturing of the vanishing instant cannot be hurried." Abbott often used a small camera to take 
photographic “sketches" and later returned to the scene with a larger camera to take what she 
considered to be the “real" photograph.
